now we're recording hello welcome to the
pocket manager special interest group we
could catch up of two special made 20
million long can be enforced them so
they makes has changed to us become
stood by traffic isn't to wait for the
units across stuff yeah it's more almost
done than the best last week which is
cool when I engage them with each other
[Music]
Jessica can you go my headphone
battery so I sure think so
this week so I set up labels for the
github project it is an absurd amount of
labels looking through it if you look at
the link there's like a ridiculous
number of them so part of that was
actually sort of is like a proof of
concept for how we might want to scale
that labeling methodology out using on
things outside of the package manager
world so that was sort of why I was
trying to kill a mosquito with a brick
there any any input or thoughts you
might have on that are more than welcome
just as part of that I'm bringing our
use of that back to the design guild
slash community of practice slash
whatever we're calling ourselves now
just as sort of an overarching method
for github labeling since some seems
like it's an or we don't really do that
all that much we're well so far I think
Andrews got his head set back so so yeah
I also took a passionate assigning
labels to all of our open issues um part
of those were pretty straightforward
part of that was just me making stuff up
so again if you happen to be sitting in
one of those issues if you don't mind
taking a look at the labels just to see
if they make sense and like I said any
feedback is more than welcome so Eric's
implementation decision tree that Andrew
was kind enough to flowchart out I
messed about with that a little bit more
as well and turned it into really
something that was maybe more text-based
but was still flowchart II that seems to
work fairly well the last box on that
yes and no the good and bad is sort of
switched around so if you look at the
bottom of that there's also an
alternative box for another way of
expressing the same thing had an open
question out to Eric as to whether that
made sense to him but sort of my intent
is this is kind of one of those things
that you know obviously it's helpful to
us to get our thoughts together but as
part of like tying this into Andrews
effort to putting things in a Doc's
directory the more sort of outside world
useful we can make any of those
artifacts the better off we're going to
be as a whole
socializing the package managers effort
um so watch that space I'm gonna be you
sort of have that as a background task
of really reworking as many of those
things as we've got in our issues list
that we feel could be helpful
documentation wise for the greater
community as a whole
ditto also went through you know all
those outcomes workshops that we did
like in February and March before I
worked here and I got to sit in on some
of those I took a stab at consolidating
that information into from everybody's
conversations into one document that
really separates everything out into
outcomes requirements to get to those
outcomes and then ideals ideals meaning
like the entire world uses ipfs for all
package managers by default yay
so that's really a first batch that's
probably gonna inform some additional
work just in terms of doing other sort
of user journey and segmentations heck
stuff in the future it's maybe more of a
working document from me and people I
might ask questions to them for anything
else anyone else but it also might be
interesting just for you to drop in on
that and see how all of those things are
consolidated from all of our discussions
yes Andrew that feels like they'll be
interesting to connect those different
blocks you have to like which Docs do we
have in the repo and which ones do we
not have and like to give a to-do list
of things like there's no details here
for her
publishers there's only stuff her like
there's there's no documentation for
that bit yeah exactly exactly I think
especially the requirements section of
that mural is going to give us you know
obviously that's going to feed technical
requirements I think by and large we are
aware of many of those technical
requirements of having talked about them
amongst ourselves but there's also sort
of another spin to those requirements
like you're saying of generating
requirements for knowledge sharing or
outreach or just like general level
setting among the community as a whole
so yeah very good point it's pretty
messy right now there's some duplication
in the back
says again it's you know it's a working
document for me um but it but it is
calling it might be a good thing just to
you know make yourself cup of coffee and
glance at it and see if it brings up any
thoughts additionally I also started
using some of those to generate persona
documents for our key audience segments
that opened up sort of a rabbit's hole
of you from from UX perspective there's
a couple of different ways that you can
like do personas and what goes in the
sort of information boxes for each
persona is gonna be very different based
on the type of thing that you're
building and I realized you're sort of
standard persona methodology wasn't
gonna be real helpful for us so that's
how my list for next week but that's
probably going to detour back into UX
strategy toolbox land well I am figure
out some some best methods for doing for
sodas for product in this thing chair
next is kind of more the same and
blockers is just like I'm I'm in like
moving hell right now so I am my own
worst blocker at the moment so if I'm
sporadic I really apologize in advance
hopefully this will be all wrapped up by
like at least it the boxes will be in
the new place and kind of unpacked by
like the end of next week so then
everything will be back to normal but if
you think it's really bad you know just
like send me DM son slack because it
pings like my arm so if you need me in a
hurry funny that way so he's exactly
what all he did I know I hate this thing
I love it I hate it so thanks guys
okay headphones plugged in I can I can
hear again what did I do
so I wrote up a little review of the
github package registry that was
announced on Friday without having beta
access but as far as I can tell I'm not
missing anything and highlighted some of
the the areas that they could do better
or that they have done as good as
existing package managers in the sense
of things can be deleted there's no
connection between the tag of the source
code that's released and the thing
that's published as a package as much as
some people on Twitter seem to think
that that was the case you can publish
anything it's literally just push a
tarball connected to the release it
there's no guarantee of anything I I
should ask for beta access I did not ask
he maybe they were like when don't give
him beta access because you'll find more
problems then there's also like the
whole things can be deleted which causes
problems and similarly like depending on
the package manager the ability to have
ambiguous package names coming from
different registries you're essentially
trusting every person every github org
or user to not make a package called
rails on their own github account which
then puts in a dodgy version of rails
into your gem file because it's not
clear how ruby gems would decide which
registry it should choose as the
priority one for a given package
similarly with maven NPM is not affected
by that
ongoing other integrations will probably
run into that same problem and there so
I posted that it got really good
response on Twitter and then github
reached out I just had a I just got off
a call with them kind of to talk about
some of those bits more and they're kind
of that their line is there they don't
want to replace package manager
registries they're it's primarily
focused on private things and like
github Enterprise set ups but they want
to work towards improving package
managers or as a forcing function to
make package managers kind of that have
got very stale NPM friend recently is
like security is is just been
disappointing to github and people
within blend github for NPM problems and
so they're trying to take ownership of
that a little bit more and thinking
about like ways that they could have
more reproducibility maybe a github
action is the only thing that could be
allowed to publish a package or that if
a github action published a package
without any human interaction it would
get more like a verified badge or some
like providence trail of here is the the
log that shows you what happened to
generate that package still potential
for some nasty stuff because you could
have your github action go and fetch a
URL from from arbitrary place and insert
that inside the package but at least you
would have visibility and what happened
is that if the log was actually
published somewhere they also have some
interesting thoughts on what to do
around security of modules potentially
blocking downloads of packages that have
been classed as being vulnerable which
is going to polarize a lot of people's
opinions when it comes to open source
packages to be like you can no longer
download this because as a security
vulnerability whether or not that
applies to your particular usage for my
PFF this point of view that's a an
interesting kind of like opposite stance
to if you've already downloaded the
package then you should keep the package
like locally and it should continue to
work on ipfs they also want to put on a
package manager conference so I've kind
of
- ooh only a like co-organizer I guess
no idea of the date be in San Francisco
most likely in their office for about
like a hundred people and possibly doing
a podcast episode with them they also
seem quite open to potential ipfs
integration around the package registry
so that might be a case of giving
to make the community feel more secure
in the immutability aspects as well as
adding more layers of kind of what's the
word I don't know I don't know what the
word is but they seem quite interested
in it I basically said I would put
together some kind of a dock for them as
a primer for the different ways that
ipfs could be used or different areas
that we could essentially kind of try
and align that which would be really
interesting I mean we can start with
just the releases but potentially having
any content from github that it can be
content addressable with github running
a full suite of ipfs nodes would be
would be super so that's interesting
cool
and I need to follow up there's also
some stuff that I can't really talk
about on the private on the public call
and that can save for later what else
did I do
so I started reorganizing the package
manager' repo content a little bit
there's a lot of stuff in issues that
doesn't it's good for discussion but
once it's kind of the discussion has
died down then it gets lost in a
never-ending sea of new issues scrolling
past so I've been plucking the
interesting content out into Docs as a
pull request that's open and like it's
kind of moving towards being almost like
a book or like a guide with like
references and reading materials for
different areas that might I have not
had the headspace to try and imagine
what that looks like in total but maybe
I can make some time with Jessica to
organize thoughts around that and like
almost end up with the skeleton rather
than try and create it from what we
already have to have a little bit more
intentioned and then the other area that
I've been working on is
on the previous decentralized package
manager' research they did which is kind
of coming towards some some thinking
around how to make or one approach to
make decentralized package management
more resilient because if you have many
and this would apply to it would even
work for centralized package management
as well and the idea is that for every
registry that you depend upon for
fetching information from if any one of
those has availability issues either
that something is deleted that is
temporarily down or broken or your
offline will actually cause problems if
any one of them doesn't work your whole
dependency resolution strategy fails
because you need a piece of data from
each one of those registries and with
the the advent of this github package
registry every individual organization
is its own registry there's not one
giant registry there's many small ones
each with their own little bits of
dependency metadata and so I've been
calling it resilient
resolution and it's essentially saying
if you take your wherever than having
three entities involved in dependency
change let's say you've got your your
application that has some dependencies
you've got your the new dependency that
you'd like to add and that could be an
updated version or it could even be a
removed version but let's say it's a
it's just a new one that you want to add
you currently need the registry as a
third piece at least one registry
potentially many more in the case of go
ipfs you need 125 of them by my account
for every different git repository that
it references but you can find that from
go mod the go mod file in the repository
and if any one of those goes away
obviously you you've broken that the
ability to resolve that and doesn't mean
that where you could have gone to Mars
and then you're gonna have to talk 225
different servers on earth which is like
it's just not gonna work so if you can
take if you can store more of the
dependency information involved that was
involved at the time that you did the
previous resolution or that you
published that package so this is
basically listing all of the possible
acceptable versions of each one of the
dependencies involved in this package
has one dependency here are all the
versions that it sees are acceptable at
publish time this this application has a
list of dependencies here are all the
possible versions that can be used can
be accepted when successfully completing
a dependency resolution but the usually
only pics like say the latest one for
example if you store all of that
available version data you don't need to
go back to the registry to be able in
the case of a conflict or some other
dependency satisfiability problem I
forget all of the terms around
satisfiability but then you're able to
connect the dots between a new package
and your applications dependencies
without the registry without needing
extra information which means that a
figure offline if you if you don't have
that access because it was deleted or is
broken for some reason you can still
function which means that in a
decentralized world where there are
registries popping up and disappearing
all the time you're basically saying
like the first when I actually see that
registry I'll take everything I need
from it I'll keep it locally and then
I'll be able to operate without it where
it comes into ipfs land is like then
you're like oh actually some of these
problems become less problems because
they're always available for everyone
who's sharing that content
but it means that you can still like
lose particular access to the network
while still being able to work on what
you have so most of the way writing that
up I'm just kind of getting to the end
and then we'll be published on the end
of the previous issue which then will be
sucked out back into the docs directory
once I finish circling around to
organize that but it feels like it's I'd
like to kind of get it out in front of a
few more people and get their thoughts
on it to see if it has some legs as a as
an approach that would work it I mean it
definitely does work in cases like the
homebrew or any kind of portable
registry that stores everything locally
so you don't need to go to the network
to be able to do that that's kind of
where my head has been at basically for
the past four days but hopefully get
that published within the next day or
two and then start getting some feedback
on that as well
very cool
I assume when when we're storing these
things also restoring the see IDs of
them so that we can also do this
validation that like for example if I if
I'm I'm offline but I find someone else
who's offline who has an an updated or
you know so one of these options that I
would like to use that I could also be
like oh well I have the metadata that
points to your CID so I know that the
content that you have is something that
would work with all of the other stuff
that I'm trying to use without going
back to a central registry yeah so I've
imagined I've tried to not imply any
kind of implementation to begin with but
when you add in IP OD kind of treating
IP FSF as the Tarbosaurus is like a done
deal this is like having key and Tarble
is very reasonable and easy but storing
a the data and IP OD would mean that
your even d duping like where we've got
similar bits of dependency tree across
many different packages they're all
referencing the same things actually
like oh I've probably already got half
of this dependency data in the registry
bits I've already got locally before I
need to go out to the network to fetch
stuff or if as you say like I'm
connected to a local peer that has some
of that I don't need to to do the work
it it feels like there's a good proposal
for any package manager and that
implementing it on IP FS is the easiest
way to do it
you could do it otherwise but if you use
IP FS and IP LD then you get like boost
from it
or it's just easier to do the other
thing that I'm talking to Eric although
he said he's inputting right now I think
and trying to find where how much this
crosses over with his timeless stack
work because it feels like it's kind of
coming from the opposite angle the time
the stack is all about how the end
result ends up on your computer but it
currently skims
all of the actual discovery of modules
and catalogs and lineages it basically
just assumes that you already know where
all of those things are and you don't
you don't try and connect the dots
whereas that's like the whole network
effective package managers is people
sharing stuff and you being able to find
it and then to be able to like resilient
lis use it to actually get work done Jim
did you have for some stuff yeah I just
put up one to stuff in this week I did
some brainstorming with you while I was
in Portland and then I went to CSV comp
and I've dropped a few interesting links
into my notes there none much time to
talk about them so I think there was
really interesting stuff at the
conference the conference was mostly
science science background academia PPO
people and their interests are
reproducibility and so having immutable
packages is a big part of that there's a
lot of work involved and actually
packaging data which I wasn't really
aware of and also I met with Geoffrey
askin from the chrome team and learned a
bit more about web package and web
package is actually intended for
JavaScript so it's actually pretty
relevant to the packaging discussions
here so that's I can talk more about
that if Amy's got questions
saerom anymore reading around that web
package stuff than the repository web
pack and web package are not the same
thing cool so yeah guys it's yeah but
branding on it's a little skeptical
skeptical about the branding but yeah
web web package is basically its zip
files basically but they're gonna be
yeah but there are going to be using SSL
Certificates to sign that stuff and
distribute them and their primary use
case is peer to peer so but this is
coming from Chrome which has like 80%
browser share in the world so maybe more
than that so I know that Chrome has I
think I think Chrome has this idea of
maybe the cache a lot of common
JavaScript maybe this is clog flare
someone caches a lot of the common
JavaScript libraries that many people
use to make it more efficient for people
to load websites this ringing any bells
for anyone it's someone Google there's a
web extension that does exactly that
maybe that's what you're thinking I
thought there was like someone of one of
the big guys one of the big like central
chunks of the internet like does
actually does this on the back end
somewhere um such that it serves really
fast and you can load a lot of a lot of
web pages really quickly I think yeah
it's like Google caches jQuery and all
that stuff not related I think Google
just recently released a feature where
they have like es modules that are built
into the browser so you don't even have
to fetch them off of the web so I have a
feeling that this probably fits into
that plan so this is a model whereby I
visit a web site and we've talked about
companion doing this right but I visit a
website and I cache everything I load in
order to browse that web site Akasha
offline in my ipfs code and if I ever go
to that website again I'm like oh wait I
already have all this data locally I'll
just load it locally and if I want to
refined that piece of text that I
already saw well that's that's great you
already loaded that you don't need to do
it again you can do it even if you were
all fine this is that pretty much what
web packages is doing except without the
ipfs part well it doesn't really so the
only part that exists right now is the
signed exchanges which is being used by
a MP but MP isn't the primary customer
of this so I think that they've been
doing some work around like extending
JavaScript so JavaScript will actually
have a standard library going forward
which will be so I have a feeling that
this will fit quite well with that so
they'll be able to upgrade the standard
standard library in the browser but by
signing everything with SSL so but I
didn't really talk about that part with
Jeffrey so I'm just speculating
you guys have notes or something
somewhere it might be useful to to share
with the collab group so that at least
you know I know that there are some
people who talk to Chrome somewhat
regularly maybe not this person in
particular but integrating this into the
the total global conversation yeah I
believe that they're actually going to
send a person to ipfs camp in Barcelona
so we might build a talk with them
directly there okay we are out of time
does anybody else have anything I want
to discuss I mean I'm not quite to talk
I mean not that I think we should like
to say after this call for instance the
plan is to talk about an e/m or ipfs
from a u.s. perspective slash war needs
to happen for we're happy to release it
without you that's disco and we're going
to talk about that on the GUI call
tomorrow
that sounds awesome
I will watch the recording because I
want to be on a plane but that's not
super snazzy what time is that coal
early 4:00 p.m. in some time zones my
time zone yes I can do something here to
Canada yeah I just want to get us all on
a call and talk about because we're very
close to being able to push it out with
desktop I think there's a bunch of
things there's some low-hanging fruit
and then there's bigger conversations
about how do we make it really good we
should do that we're going to start
recording yes okay